Financial fraud is an ever growing menace with far reaching consequences in the finance industry, corporate organizations, and government. 
Fraud can be defined as criminal deception with intent of acquiring financial gain. High dependence on internet technology has enjoyed increased credit card transactions. As credit card transactions become the most prevailing mode of payment for both online and offline transaction, credit card fraud rate also accelerates. Credit card fraud can come in either inner card fraud or external card fraud. Inner card fraud occurs as a result of consent between cardholders and bank by using false identity to commit fraud while the external card fraud involves the use of stolen credit card to get cash through dubious means. A lot of researches have been devoted to detection of external card fraud which accounts for majority of credit card frauds. Detecting fraudulent transactions using traditional methods of manual detection is time consuming and inefficient, thus the advent of big data has made manual methods more impractical. However, financial institutions have focused attention to recent computational methodologies to handle credit card fraud problem.

Data mining technique is one notable methods used in solving credit fraud detection problem. Credit card fraud detection is the process of identifying those transactions that are fraudulent into two classes of legitimate (genuine) and fraudulent transactions. Credit card fraud detection is based on analysis of a card's spending behaviour. 

In this analysis of credit card fraud detection, I'm using random forest, naive bayes and logistic regression techniques on highly skewed data based on accuracy, precision, recall, f1-score and AUC metrics. 
